---
layout: post
title: "Deep Algorithm Unfolding: LISTA for Complex SSR"
date: 2023-06-02
categories: topics
published: true
---

### Background
Traditional deep learning methods rely on generic model structures and necessitate large amounts of training data to converge to robust solutions. However, a recent paradigm has emerged that combines the strengths of data-driven deep learning with the exploitation of domain knowledge. This novel approach, known as model-based deep learning or deep algorithm unfolding, offers several advantages. It not only enables high robustness but also requires fewer trainable parameters and training data compared to conventional neural networks.

In the field of ultrasound imaging, there is a growing need for reliable signal recovery algorithms that can ensure the production of high-resolution images even when subsampling signals in the frequency domain. Consequently, it becomes crucial to enhance the performance of robust complex sparse signal recovery (SSR) algorithms. The Iterative Shrinkage Thresholding Algorithm (ISTA) and its faster variant, Fast ISTA (FISTA), are widely utilized for solving linear inverse problems, making them common choices in compressed sensing applications. However, the default support for complex inputs in neural networks poses a challenge. Hence, it is imperative to explore various network architectures and devise an optimal solution for Complex LISTA (CLISTA) that overcomes this limitation.

### Task
- Conduct a comprehensive literature review on Fourier sampling techniques and deep algorithm unfolding methodologies.
- Develop a customized deep neural network architecture tailored specifically for CLISTA.
- Generate synthetic data sets and employ them to train the designed network for practical applications.
- Perform a comparative analysis to evaluate the performance of the proposed design against existing architectures.

### Reference
- Gregor K, LeCun Y. Learning fast approximations of sparse coding[C]//Proceedings of the 27th international conference on international conference on machine learning. 2010: 399-406.
- Luijten B, Chennakeshava N, Eldar Y C, et al. Ultrasound Signal Processing: From Models to Deep Learning[J]. Ultrasound in medicine & biology, 2023.

### Supervisor
- Dr. Ing. Florian Römer, M. Sc. Han Wang
- Email: han.wang@izfp.fraunhofer.de