---
layout: post
title: "Deep Learning-Based Optimal Selection of Frequency Bins in Compressed Sensing"
date: 2023-06-02
categories: topics
published: true
---

### Background
Compressed Sensing (CS) is a signal processing technique that allows the reconstruction of a sparse or compressible signal from a small number of acquired measurements, enabling efficient data acquisition and compression. Instead of randomly sampling in frequency domain, it is significant to deduce a determinant optimal subsampling pattern. Recently, softmax deep neural networks were shown to provide a feasible approach for solving such problems. 

### Task
- Conduct an extensive literature review on optimal Fourier sampling techniques and model-based deep learning methodologies.
- Replicate the JSR algorithm as outlined in the provided reference.
- Construct a Gumbel-Softmax or Softmax neural network architecture specifically designed for signal recovery purposes.
- Generate synthetic data sets and employ them to train the network with the aim of achieving optimal compressed sensing patterns in the frequency domain.

### Reference
- Huijben I A M, Veeling B S, Janse K, et al. Learning sub-sampling and signal recovery with applications in ultrasound imaging[J]. IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging, 2020, 39(12): 3955-3966.
- Mulleti S, Zhang H, Eldar Y C. Learning to Sample for Sparse Signals[C]//ICASSP 2022-2022 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2022: 3363-3367.

### Supervisor
- Dr. Ing. Florian Römer, M. Sc. Han Wang
- Email: han.wang@izfp.fraunhofer.de